Nutrition Research publishes research from studies in humans, cells, or animal models that advance
knowledge in the areas of nutrition and/or dietetics. Specifically, Nutrition Research seeks to communicate
nutrition-based solutions that can improve human health by understanding interactions between/among diet,
nutrients, bioactive food components, physiological systems, genetics, and metabolic pathways in preclinical
models or human populations.
The Editors, members of the Editorial Board, and peer-reviewers of Nutrition Research are committed to
rigorous scientific standards, facilitating timely peer-reviews, and publication of high-quality manuscripts. Newly
submitted manuscripts can be expected to be screened initially in under 2-weeks for appropriateness of potential
publication in Nutrition Research. Those entering the peer-review process under the direction of an editor can
expect to receive a decision from first review in less than 6 weeks. Most manuscripts will have a final decision
regarding suitability of publication in ~7 weeks. Manuscripts that are accepted for publication will then undergo
efficient copyediting and production prior to a fully citable article-based publication in typically less than 1-month.
Nutrition Research considers most types of scientific manuscripts for publication. These include controlled
studies in cellular and animal models, human trials, and observational and epidemiological studies. The journal
also encourages narrative reviews, systemic reviews, meta-analyses, and Letters to the Editor (editorials).
B. Statement of Scope
Nutrition Research publishes research articles, short communications, and reviews on all aspects of basic
and applied nutrition. The mission of Nutrition Research is to serve as the journal for global communication of
nutrition and life sciences research on diet and health. The field of nutritional sciences includes, but is not limited
to, the study of nutrients during growth, reproduction, aging, and disease.
Articles covering basic and applied research on all aspects of nutritional sciences are encouraged, including:
nutritional biochemistry and metabolism; metabolomics, nutrient and gene interactions; nutrient requirements in
health and disease; digestion and absorption; nutritional anthropology and epidemiology; the influence of
socioeconomic and cultural factors on nutrition of the individual and the community; the impact of nutrient intake
on disease response, work performance and behavior; the consequences of nutritional deficiency on growth and
development, endocrine and nervous systems, and immunity; food intolerance and allergy; nutrient drug
interactions; nutrition and aging; nutrition and cancer; obesity; diabetes; and intervention programs.
A principal focus of the journal is to publish research that advances the understanding of nutrients and health
protectants in food for improving the human condition. Of additional interest are manuscripts on the development
of biomarkers that can assess how dietary components influence health status in the human.
The journal also encourages manuscripts describing investigations in animal models and cellular or in vitro
models that utilize methodologic approaches or techniques in biochemistry, immunology, molecular biology,
toxicology, and physiology. Epidemiological studies on food, nutrient, and/or phytochemical intakes in human
populations and novel analytical techniques for these compounds are within the scope of the mission for Nutrition
Research. 