What is FNDDS?
The USDA Food and Nutrient Database for Dietary Studies (FNDDS) converts foods and
beverages consumed in What We Eat in America (WWEIA), National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey (NHANES) into gram amounts and determines their nutrient values.
Appendix A lists abbreviations used in this documentation. The FNDDS 2017-2018 is the ninth
version released.
How can FNDDS be used?
Because the FNDDS generates the nutrient intake data files for WWEIA, NHANES, researchers
do not need to use the FNDDS to estimate the nutrient intake for the survey respondents.
FNDDS is made available for researchers to review the nutrient profiles for specific foods and
beverages that were consumed in the WWEIA, NHANES in the corresponding survey years as
well as their associated portions and recipe calculations. Such detailed information makes it
possible to conduct enhanced analysis of dietary intakes. Additionally, FNDDS can be applied
in other dietary research studies to determine the amounts of nutrients/food components in food
and beverages.
What We Eat in America, NHANES
The NHANES is a nationally representative, cross-sectional survey designed to monitor the
health and nutritional status of the civilian, noninstitutionalized U.S. population and is conducted
by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s National Center for Health Statistics.
NHANES is a continuous survey with data releases every two years. Each 2-year cycle includes
about 9,000 participants from sampled counties across the country.
The Food Surveys Research Group of the Beltsville Human Nutrition Research Center of USDA’s
Agricultural Service has lead responsibility for the survey’s dietary data collection methodology
and maintenance of the databases used to code and process data. Trained interviewers using
the 5-step USDA Automated Multiple-Pass Method (AMPM) collect dietary intakes. The AMPM
includes an extensive compilation of standardized food-specific questions and possible response
options. Routing of questions is based on previous responses. An initial 24- hour recall (day 1) is
collected in-person at a NHANES Mobile Examination Center; a second recall (day 2) is collected
by telephone 3-10 days later. The AMPM was validated in a large study and shown to be an
effective method for accurately assessing group energy (Moshfegh et al, 2008) and sodium
intake of adults (Rhodes et al, 2013).
The AMPM is revised for each 2-year collection of WWEIA to reflect the changing food supply
and to address research needs from the data user community. The FNDDS is also modified to
reflect AMPM revisions as well as changes in consumption patterns and availability of nutrient
values. A new version is released to accompany each 2-year release of WWEIA, NHANES
(Bodner-Montville et al). This version (FNDDS 2017-2018) was used to process WWEIA,
NHANES 2017-2018 and reflects the food supply during this period. It is not recommended to
use a version of FNDDS other than the database associated with the given survey cycle.